---layout: posttitle:  "Research and Implementation of the Data Definition, Data Manipulation and Schema Evolution in an OOEDBMS"date:   1995-03-01 00:00:00 -0500categories: jian home---# 浙 江 大 学 硕 士 学 位 论 文

----------

## Research and Implementation of the Data Definition, Data Manipulation and Schema Evolution in an OOEDBMS
### (M.S.cs Thesis)### Jian Liu### Department of Computer Science### Zhejiang University### Hangzhou, 310027### P. R. China## AbstractThis research is to develop an OOEDBMS (Object Oriented Engineering Database Management System) which is fit for practical application, especially inthe environment under STEP. Upon this, a more advanced purpose is to build an o-o datamodel and to study the features that an OOEDBMS should possess.OOEDBMS features are divided into three levels according to its importance, degree of well-recognition and implementation. Mature parts of o-o model can be adopted in practicalimplementation firstly. Meanwhile other parts of the model can get experience during realworld application to accelerate their formalization speed.In this thesis, an object oriented data model is presented that not only suits for engineeringapplication using STEP but also contains more popular meaning. The data model formallydescribes major features of object oriented mechanism.The later part of the thesis introduces an OODBEMS:OSCAR, including its design andimplementation.OSCAR is a Client/Server architecture. It not only uses EXPRESS language as modelinglanguage but also possesses its own DDL. These two kinds of modeling is in harmony. Thedata access interface of OSCAR includes SDAI and its self-defined data manipulationfunctions. C late binding is adopted to provide database facilities.One of OODBMS essential properties is schema evolution. After referring to a lot ofliterature, I take in the advantages of different schema evolution methods, design a schemaevolution method for OSCAR, and implement it. It classifies the schema modificationoperations, puts forward a group of OSCAR schema invariant properties and a group of ruleswhich uphold the schema invariant properties. Besides, a new update/backdate mechanismbased on class versions tree and class Meta-Objects is introduced. Based on these facilities, arequested conversion method is implemented, which propagates schema changes on instances.This method has its advantages compared with other schema evolution methods adopted incurrent OODB management systems. The results of OSCAR system runs prove that it isreally an effective, good schema evolution method.Major features of OSCAR include:1. Being an OOEDBMS based on product data model;2. Supporting STEP model and information integration;3. Adopting advanced object oriented techniques;4. Using newest release of SDAI as data access interface;5. Providing the facilities of version management, schema evolution, query, transaction process, view, etc. ;6. Providing two access methods: programming and interactive interface ;7. Having Chinese interface;8. Owning complete copyright.