---
layout: post
title:  "Jian Bio"
date:   1900-01-01 00:00:00 -0500
categories: professional-career
---

# Personal Background
----------
I was admitted to Xiamen University, waived China national university admission exams due to her academic distinction in high school. Jian studied **Computer Science** major for four years and was graduated with a honor B.Sc. degree.

Right after university, She was admitted to Zhejiang University Graduate School, studied and researched **Computer Applications** for 2.5 years and was graduated with a M.Sc. degree. She published a couple research papers in China national computer science periodicals.

I has worked as senior software engineer/developer in Greater Toronto area since 1999. 

I provides independent consultant service to software development.  



# Professional Introduction
----------

**An experienced senior software developer with 20+ years of progressive advancement in designing and developing complex large scaled applications.**

*Domain experience: 12+ years in Capital Market and Finance Risk Management, 2 years in health benefits, 2 year in Ontario government OPS, 1 years in retail.*
 
- Diversified technical skills in two areas: data warehousing area and Application backend area. Ranging from: 
	- (my primary interest) Big data, Enterprise data warehousing, batch and real-time streaming data integration
	- (my secondary interest) Micro-Service and Web Service backend, REST API, SOAP API, real-time messaging API,  
	- (2001-2007 in-depth) large scaled distributed computing in grid cluster, partitions and sub-partitions, multi-threading, 
- In-depth and in-width strength is in application backend development and data integration development.
- Hands-on pragmatic programmer. Good in OOP and Design Patterns. 
- 9 years as software engineer in an industry renowned finance risk management software company - IBM Algorithmics 
- 15+ years using Java and JEE. 8+ years extensive coding with Spring and Spring-boot.
- 10+ in database development.
- 10+ years’ in-depth development in data integration in data warehousing using ETLT design. (2010 - current).
- 7 years’ development in event messaging and streaming data applications. (2013 - current)
- 5 years’ development in REST API web service (2015 - current)
- 4 years’ development in SOAP API web service (2010 - 2015)
- 6+ years’ in-depth development in high performance risk computation engine using distributed clustered, controller-workers, multi-threading architecture and design (2001-2006). 
- 2 years hand-on development experience in Micro-services architecture.
- 2 years in Python. 
- Strong analytical and problem solving skills. 
- Initiative, Quality Conscious; Responsible and accountable; Results oriented; 


## Independent Contractor Relationship 

The Supplier and its Assigned Personnel shall: 
1. the Assigned Personnel shall have no expectation of privacy in connection with the use, to the
extent required, of the Client’s equipment or tools or with the transmission, receipt or storage of the Assigned
Personnel’s information in these systems.
2. not be qualified to participate in or to receive any employee benefits or specialized training that the Client may extend to its employees; 
3. not be subject to any seniority system in place at the Client; title "contracted software developer"
4. be required to abide by all applicable laws and related internal policies of the Client (for instance, anti-harassment, health and safety and applicable code of conduct policies) and the Supplier will advise the Assigned Personnel of same; 
5. have no authority to contract for or bind the Company or the Client in any manner and shall not represent itself as an
agent of the Company and/or Client or as otherwise authorized to act for or on behalf of the Company and/or
Client. 
6. neither the Company nor the Client shall be responsible for providing
an office, a vehicle, equipment or tools (other than such equipment or tools that are secure and necessary for
Assigned Personnel to access and/or deliver the Services, which equipment or tools shall remain under the
control of the Client or the Company for security, auditing and application of Client policies, for so long as the
Services are being provided), business cards, administrative support, licensing fees, or insurance coverage in
order for the Supplier to provide the Services. 

Also the Supplier and its Assigned Personnel shall: 
1. be free to provide services to other clients, so long as there is not interference with the Supplier’s contractual obligations to the Company or the Client; 

