---
layout: post
title:  "My Bio"
date:   1900-01-01 00:00:00 -0500
---

## Personal Background

I studied "Computer Science" major for four years and was graduated with a honor B.Sc. degree.

Right after university, I studied and researched "Computer Applications" for 2.5 years and was graduated with a M.Sc. degree. 

I has worked as senior software engineer/developer in Greater Toronto area since 1999. 

I provides independent consultant service to software development.  


## Professional Introduction

An experienced senior software developer with 20+ years of progressive advancement in designing and developing complex large scaled applications.


## Independent Contractor Relationship 

The Supplier and its Assigned Personnel shall: 
1. the Assigned Personnel shall have no expectation of privacy in connection with the use, to the
extent required, of the Client’s equipment or tools or with the transmission, receipt or storage of the Assigned
Personnel’s information in these systems.
2. not be qualified to participate in or to receive any employee benefits or specialized training that the Client may extend to its employees; 
3. not be subject to any seniority system in place at the Client; title "contracted software developer"
4. be required to abide by all applicable laws and related internal policies of the Client (for instance, anti-harassment, health and safety and applicable code of conduct policies) and the Supplier will advise the Assigned Personnel of same; 
5. have no authority to contract for or bind the Company or the Client in any manner and shall not represent itself as an
agent of the Company and/or Client or as otherwise authorized to act for or on behalf of the Company and/or
Client. 
6. neither the Company nor the Client shall be responsible for providing an office, a vehicle, equipment or tools (other than such equipment or tools that are secure and necessary for Assigned Personnel to access and/or deliver the Services, which equipment or tools shall remain under the control of the Client or the Company for security, auditing and application of Client policies, for so long as the Services are being provided), business cards, administrative support, licensing fees, or insurance coverage in
order for the Supplier to provide the Services. 
7. the Supplier and its Assigned Personnel shall be free to provide services to other clients, so long as there is not interference with the Supplier’s contractual obligations to the Company or the Client; 

